I would like to see somebody, an anthropologist,
really look at this influence of how our legal
system, our judiciary system, our legislative
system, which is totally related to the nature of
the laws, which government is made of laws, not
men, I take it. but it nevertheless influences men
and their way of thinking. And there's
really a tremendously fundamental
inconsistency between our system of advocacy and
science, and the manner in which advice,
guidance can be exercised. Of course, other
political systems, and I'm just guessing it's
Napoleonic ones of that nature, may not be quite so
constrained. All sides and all doubts and all
questions and all levels of certainty can be
discussed more freely in a system of that nature,
perhaps.
So you see science as sort of an explosive
institution where everybody puts in sorts of
ideas and argues and eventually you would affect,
would you say, calculate risk, like you say the
risk of a nuclear plant is 0.2% in terms of doing
damage, so you ought to go ahead then and do what's
necessary to develop one? Is that fair to say, that
sort of open debate? I'm not a bit sure how the
nuclear power plant business has gone, really. I
think that what has happened is that Many
companies developed nuclear power plants, and
they were really looking for patentable aspects
of them so that they could have control of them. I
know General Atomics had some very excellent
parts of their development. Somehow, all of this
should be put together in the best parts of all of
these put together, you see. But that hasn't
happened, I believe. So each company has its
weaknesses and its strengths. What we need is the
most certain sort of a nuclear power plant. But if
you want to talk about certainty and risk,
and I truly believe that if in the brain of the
archangel that runs this universe, there is some
sort of a curve which says, what are the risks to the
human race? And the risks to the human race are not
probably the ones we recognize, just exactly like
the risks in war are very often not the ones we
recognize. And that if one really knew what this
curve looked like and could make the product of
risks and stakes, or on the positive side, risks
are possibilities and advantages, it's the rare
ones that are going to count, the very rare ones.
The fact that we can foresee you might have a
nuclear accident is probably a trivial risk
anyway. If you multiply the stakes times the risk,
it's a very low number.
On the other hand, there are a great number of other
things that probably are not so.
Natural events. And I truly think that science's
role is to explore these more unlikely
possibilities. Let's look at the positive side
for an instance. There is no science that rules out
the existence of a particle, which is a normal
particle that has an opposite charge of gravity,
just a negative gravity particle. There's no law
that rules such a particle out. There is a rule that
says if nothing rules it out, it probably exists.
What are the possibilities of such a particle
existing and that we could make them? A billion to
one? Maybe so. But what are the advantages if we
could? Christ, an anti-gravity particle? We'd be
in real business if it were in normal manner, not
animatic. We'd really be in business, wouldn't
we? The boon to the world would be absolutely
incredible. The product of possibility and value
is an immense one, even though it's only a billion
to one or whatever it is. The product is huge. We
must explore both on the positive side and the
negative side these much more outlandish, outre
possibilities, it seems to me. And we've got to
think, and the anthropologists also, and the
historians should really think about what are the
risks and advantages that are critical to the
survival of this species, which I take it is one of
our principal concerns.